session-delivery-resources/README.md, before:


## How To Use

Welcome,

We're glad you are here and look forward to your delivery of this amazing content. As an experienced presenter, we know you know HOW to present so this guide will focus on WHAT you need to present. It will provide you a full run-through of the presentation created by the presentation design team. 

Along with the video of the presentation, this document will link to all the assets you need to successfully present including PowerPoint slides and demo instructions &
code.

1. Read presentation in its entirety.
1. Watch the video demos that are embedded in the presentation
1. Read the demo instructions and do the demo at least once before presenting
1. Run the [`setup.sh`](./demo/setup.sh) script to setup a demo environment on the day of the presentation
1. Run the [`demo.sh`](./demo/demo.sh) script to run the demo on the day of the presentation
1. Ask questions of the Lead Presenter

## File Summary

| Resources          | Links                            | Description |
|-------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------|
| PowerPoint English        | [Presentation](https://aka.ms/AAryjht) | Slides |
| PowerPoint Spanish       | [ES Presentation](https://aka.ms/AAs7u29) | ES Slides |
| PowerPoint Portuguese       | [PT Presentation](https://aka.ms/AAs7ets)| PT Slides |
| Demo Instructions | [Walkthrough](./demo/WALKTHROUGH.md) | Step-by-step instructions for manually setting up and running demo |
| Demo Setup Script | [Script](./demo/setup.sh) | Script to setup demo environment |
| Demo Script | [Script](./demo/demo.md) | Script to run the demo |

Commit message:

docs: prep for mexico city delivery update readme and walkthrough docs, update terraform provider versions, compute sku for kubernetes, add additional variables for openai model deployments, add cleanup script, fix setup script to retry helm install commands for argocd and argo-rollouts, updating order and makeline manifests

session-delivery-resources/README.md, after:


## How To Use

Welcome!

We're glad you are here and look forward to your delivery of this amazing content. As an experienced presenter, we know you know HOW to present so this guide will focus on WHAT you need to present. It will provide you a full run-through of the presentation created by the presentation design team. 

Along with the video of the presentation, this document will link to all the assets you need to successfully present including PowerPoint slides and demo instructions &
code.

1. Clone this repo
1. Read presentation in its entirety.
1. Watch the video demos that are embedded in the presentation
1. Read the [demo instructions](./demo/WALKTHROUGH.md) and do the demo at least once manually before presenting and delete the resources after to avoid charges and quota limits.
1. Open a terminal
1. Log into your Azure tenant/subscription using Azure CLI
1. Run the `make setup` command which will invoke the [`setup.sh`](./demo/setup.sh) script to setup a demo environment on the day of the presentation
1. Run the `make demo` command which will invoke the [`demo.sh`](./demo/demo.sh) script to run the demo on the day of the presentation
1. Ask questions of the Lead Presenter
1. When complete, run the `make cleanup` command which will invoke the [`clean.sh`](./demo/cleanup.sh) script to clean up the demo environment

## File Summary

| Resources              | Links                                     | Description                                                        |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PowerPoint English     | [Presentation](https://aka.ms/AAryjht)    | Slides                                                             |
| PowerPoint Spanish     | [ES Presentation](https://aka.ms/AAs7u29) | ES Slides                                                          |
| PowerPoint Portuguese  | [PT Presentation](https://aka.ms/AAs7ets) | PT Slides                                                          |
| Demo Instructions      | [Walkthrough](./demo/WALKTHROUGH.md)      | Step-by-step instructions for manually setting up and running demo |
| Demo Setup Script      | [Script](./demo/setup.sh)                 | Script to setup demo environment                                   |
| Demo Script            | [Script](./demo/demo.md)                  | Script to run the demo                                             |
