train-the-trainer/README.md, before:


## How To Use

Welcome,

We're glad you are here and look forward to your delivery of this amazing content. As an experienced presenter, we know you know HOW to present so this guide will focus on WHAT you need to present. It will provide you a full run-through of the presentation created by the presentation design team. 

Along with the video of the presentation, this document will link to all the assets you need to successfully present including PowerPoint slides and demo instructions &
code.

1.  Read document in its entirety.
2.  Watch the video presentation
3.  Ask questions of the Lead Presenter

## File Summary

| Resources          | Links                            | Description |
|-------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------|
| PowerPoint        | [Presentation](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Faitourassetstore.blob.core.windows.net%2Fassets%2FBRK470%2520Leverage%2520cloud%2520native%2520infra%2520for%2520intelligent%2520apps%2FBRK470%2520Leverage%2520cloud%2520native%2520infra%2520for%2520intelligent%2520apps_V1.0.pptx&data=05%7C02%7CChristian.Talavera%40microsoft.com%7Cce69feb5f9714ae1a61e08dcc3b06a50%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638600409730420640%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Ffim3uJ3NdN17tddpdt1%2F0s9%2BMWFRh808mAUqFh1Azo%3D&reserved=0) | Slides |

Commit message:

chore: add owner variable to terraform config and update demo walkthrough instructions

train-the-trainer/README.md, after:


## How To Use

Welcome,

We're glad you are here and look forward to your delivery of this amazing content. As an experienced presenter, we know you know HOW to present so this guide will focus on WHAT you need to present. It will provide you a full run-through of the presentation created by the presentation design team. 

Along with the video of the presentation, this document will link to all the assets you need to successfully present including PowerPoint slides and demo instructions &
code.

1. Read presentation in its entirety.
1. Watch the video demos that are embedded in the presentation
1. Read the demo instructions and do the demo at least once before presenting
1. Run the [`setup.sh`](./demo/setup.sh) script to setup a demo environment on the day of the presentation
1. Run the [`demo.sh`](./demo/demo.sh) script to run the demo on the day of the presentation
1. Ask questions of the Lead Presenter

## File Summary

| Resources          | Links                            | Description |
|-------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------|
| PowerPoint        | [Presentation](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Faitourassetstore.blob.core.windows.net%2Fassets%2FBRK470%2520Leverage%2520cloud%2520native%2520infra%2520for%2520intelligent%2520apps%2FBRK470%2520Leverage%2520cloud%2520native%2520infra%2520for%2520intelligent%2520apps_V1.0.pptx&data=05%7C02%7CChristian.Talavera%40microsoft.com%7Cce69feb5f9714ae1a61e08dcc3b06a50%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638600409730420640%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Ffim3uJ3NdN17tddpdt1%2F0s9%2BMWFRh808mAUqFh1Azo%3D&reserved=0) | Slides |
| Demo Instructions | [Walkthrough](./demo/WALKTHROUGH.md) | Step-by-step instructions for manually setting up and running demo |
| Demo Setup Script | [Script](./demo/setup.sh) | Script to setup demo environment |
| Demo Script | [Script](./demo/demo.md) | Script to run the demo |
